Okay let's recap this module.
Building team structure, we learned that some structure,
no matter how large or small your team is,
is very important.
We explored a few ways to structure your team,
such as by customer, application, product,
service or function, or even a hybrid.
This enables parts of your team to be more customer or outward facing,
and everyone knows clearly who is responsible for what and
provides a platform for scalability.
Next we learned that a role is a description for what you
generally do each day when you're at work.
Some examples may be manager, database administrator, software engineer.
Also you must document in writing each role that is
required for you to fulfill your job.
Ensure each person knows their role or roles, and keep it up-to-date.
Remember they're going to be used also for performance reviews as well.
Next,
a responsibility is a duty or collection of duties
in the course of doing one's job, such as designing relational databases,
providing technical leadership or performing business analysis.
A collection of responsibilities makes up a role.
Next, building team skills.
We learned that not only are technical skills important,
like the alphabet soup skills I mentioned,
but also communication and leadership skills.
These two other skill areas are, in my opinion, just as important.
Determining skill requirements,
we discussed my six step process on how to determine the skills your
team needs and to create a basic training plan.
I recommend you revisit your plan about each quarter or as needed.
Informal training ideas.
We learned about lunch and learns and how you can provide training in an
informal setting and build team comradery as well.
Also, presentation skills can be improved for the person presenting,
a nice side benefit.
We also touched on dinner and develop to help your
team get started in a new technology.
Next were vendor events,
where vendors are talking about their products or services,
but may provide a quick and zero cost way to learn about a topic.
And lastly in this section we discussed how to grown your team's
members skills and capabilities through on the job opportunities by
giving them assignments and providing a mentor,
team leader or even yourself to help guide them and give them
the support and encouragement they need.
Performance reviews.
We discussed how performance reviews contribute to building team
capabilities by determining the areas of improvement,
which may drive additions to your training plan.
Motivating your team.
Yes there are many ways to motivate your team,
from awards, thanks-you's, bonuses, et cetera.
But a more subtle and systematic way is through
aligning your team's work to the business,
connecting your team with the customer,
and providing consistent performance reviews and actions such as training.
These management practices are not one-offs like an award,
but instead an integral part of how you manage your team.
The results are a team that is nurtured, content, motivated, and productive.
In the next module we will learn how to acquire the right talent for you team. I'll see you there.